## New/Delete and Allocators
### New/Delete
```c++
struct illegal{
  illegal a;
  int b;
};
```
This is an illegal class. It's size is infinite, since it just infinitely
includes itself. Of course, you could try something like this:
```c++
struct ok{
  ok* inner;
  int number;
};
ok shell(int number){
  ok inner{nullptr, 2};
  return {&inner, number};
}
int main(){
  ok a = shell(5);
  int b = a.number; //a = 5
  int c =*a.inner.number; // error: pointer is invalid
}
```
This on the face looks like it's going to work. Of course, it won't.
Afterall, the inner shell was destroyed when the function ended. Not
only that, but the pointer isn't even a nullptr, so you can't even
check for the error. So how does one have recursive members? Dynamic
allocation.

```c++
struct ok{
  ok* inner;
  int number;
};
ok shell(int number){
  ok inner = new inner{nullptr, 2};
  return {&inner, number};
}
int main(){
  ok a = shell(5);
  int b = a.number; //a = 5
  int c =*a.inner.number; // success!
  delete a.inner;
}
```

Dynamic allocation exists outside of the stack, so it stays even if
you exit the function. The downside is that it stays even if you exit
the function, and has to be deleted manually. If you forget and lose
the pointer, that memory is lost as long as the program runs. When you
do lose memory, it's called a memory leak. Memory leaks should be avoided
whenever possible, as it's hard to predict where your code will be used.

```c++
int* array = new int[5]; // {0, 0, 0, 0, 0}
*(array+2) = 4; // {0, 0, 4, 0, 0}
delete[] array;
```
New and delete can also be used to make arrays. This really isn't used very often
and should probably be avoided.

### Allocator

New and Delete require that one construct an object and have the data,
but sometimes you don't want that. In that case, std::allocator is
used to allocate memory without initalizing it.

```c++
std::allocator<int> alloc;
int* array = alloc.allocate(5);
for(int* it = array; it != a + 5; it++){
  *it = 2;
} // array = {2, 2, 2, 2, 2}
alloc.deallocate(array, 5);
```
This doesn't come in useful too often, but is required to implement
containers in the STL. The typename in the arrow brackets indicate
what type the allocator can allocate. alloc here can only allocate
for ints. An allocator declared for chars allocates chars, and so on.

[Next: 1-B3](../Chapter1/B3.md)
