## Objects, Size, and Allocation

As you already know, an object is a set of variables with functions associated with it.
More generally, an object is a size of memory with functions associated with it. Integers,
booleans, floating point numbers, and anything that occupies memory is an object. This
is the very basics of object oriented programming, and most general programming languages
implement this much at the very least.

Objects in a process (code being executed by the OS) are stored in a stack. A stack is
a data structure (something that stores and organizes data) that works by putting
stuff on top Like a stack of dishes, to remove something you'd have to remove everything
else above the thing you want to remove.

At least in c++, memory is seperated into 2 types: the stack and the heap. The stack
works as discussed, and is made up of frames. The frames represent the current
scope your code is in. Technically a stack pointer is supposed to be included, which
keeps track of where to allocate new varaibles. But it's usually deterministic enough
that the compiler can deduce where it's supposed to be, and avoid the memory overhead.

Then there's heap allocation. Implementation of heap allocation is a large and complex
topic that's way over my head, so the most I'm going to say is that it allows you to
allocate an arbitrary amount of memory. In C++, heap allocation is usually performed
via the new operator, although sometimes std::allocator or malloc is necessary.

But first, a quick diversion about libraries and headers.
[Next: 0-B3](../Chapter0/B3.md)
