## Compilers

A compiler is really 2 things at once, a translater and a linker. It first translates human code to machine code.
Then it puts that code together so it can be read all at once. Most compilers also optimize the program so it runs
faster. This is a gross oversimplification, but that's for another day.

Instead, I'm going to talk about the different compilers and platforms.

### Linux

This series is primarily linux oriented, as a reflection of my own knowledge and biases. Personally I think Linux
is the best platform for developing code, as it was made by developers for developers. In any case, there are
primarily 2 compilers on Linux: the Gnu Compiler Collection and the Low Level Virtual Machine Project.

#### GCC

GCC, written in C, is probably the most popular compiler out there, and the most feature complete. It's documentation is sparce
though and finding what flags do can be difficult.

#### LLVM

LLVM, written in C++, is the second most popular compiler, second only to GCC. It's documentation is better, but it lags behind
in the latest c++ language features. Notably it's simpler to crosscompile using LLVM, although for most people that's a non-concern.
It also is usually a drop-in replacement for GCC, so it's not difficult to use if you already have a toolchain for GCC.

### Windows

I don't code on windows, so what I know is untested. In any case, windows has 3 compilers: MicroSoft Visual Code, GCC, and LLVM.

#### MSVC

Microsoft Visual Code is probably the best way to program on windows. It has a package manager for libraries, a compiler
that requires little fuss, and overall is the easiest and most convenient way to code on Windows. It's not perfect, the
standard library is known to be a bit weird at times and the compiler has known issues that haven't been fixed.

#### LLVM

In recent versions of Visual Code, LLVM can be selected as the compiler. Do it. It has the first-class integration of
the microsoft compiler with none of the issues.

#### GCC

GCC is the compiler that comes with MinGW, which turns windows into a pseudo-linux system. I've never got it working myself,
but it comes with the benefit of being more like linux, if that's what you want.

### MacOS

I don't own a Mac, and have no experience with one. All I can say is that it's sort of like linux, and it has LLVM and gcc.

[Next 0-B2](B2.md)
