## Object Files and Linking
> main.cpp  
> Makefile  
> a.out  

Your directory probably looks something like this. Of course, this is far from sustainable.
It'll quickly become very impractical to copy the code into the main file every time you
want to reuse code.
```c++
#include <iostream>
```
That is why c, and by extension c++, has include directives. They direct the preprocessor,
which happens before compilation, to copy and paste the file iostream. iostream is a standard
library, so it's allowed to not have a file extension. Most header files end in
.h or .hpp, and contain function prototypes. Also known as a forward declaration, it declares
a function without implementing it. This encourages you to use functions without really caring
about what's in them, and also allows the compiler to compile the library and your code seperately.
What do I mean by that?

main.cpp:
```c++
#include "printer.hpp"
int main.cpp(){
  print("I like banana");
}
```
printer.hpp:
```c++
#pragma once

void print(const char*);
```
printer.cpp:
```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void print(const char* in){
  cout << "printing: " << in << "\n";
}
```
Makefile:
```Makefile
CPPFLAGS = -0g -std=c++17
.PHONEY: clean

all: a.out

clean:
	rm -f main.o
	rm -f printer.o
	rm -f a.out
%.o: %.cpp
	clang++ -c $(CPPFLAGS) $< -o $@
a.out: main.o printer.o
	clang++ -o a.out main.o printer.o
```

As you can see, the Makefile automatically compiles any
file ending in .cpp to a file naemd .o. Those are object
files. Object files contain the compiled code in the cpp file,
but also require code from other object files to run. Then
the compiler links together the object files into a.out.
Note that all of the name extensions are completely arbitrary,
and can be whatever you want them yo be. However most tooling
assumes object files end in .o. Executables in linux tend not
to have extensions, and end in .exe on windows.

Modules in C++20 aren't too well supported at the time of
writing, but allow for both headers and code files to
share forward declarations more via a language feature. I'll
probably get to writing a page on it whenever I have more experience
with them.

Now, back to objects and inheritance.
[Next: 1-B1](../Chapter1/B1.md)
