## Functions, types, and data

### The main function, and variables
*main.cpp*
```c++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

int main(int argc, char** argv){

  int a = 2;
  int b = 3;
  int c = a + b;
  int d(1);
  int f{2}; // These also work.
  int g(); // g = 0. Discouraged because it looks like a function.
  int h{}; // h = 0. Recommended when you need to null initialize.
  cout << "Hello world " << c; 
}
```
Make a file called "main.cpp" and copy the contents into it exactly.

Ignore the namespace thing as well as the include. I'll get to it later.

This is a function called main, which adds 2 numbers together and puts it onto the command line.
First off, functions are declared type, name, parameter list inside paranthesis, then code in
brackets. The function called main is the one run by the program first, and is where the code
begins.

The things called a, b, and c are variables. Variables store data which is modified by functions.
Those two things basically make up the entirety of c++, and all code.

To run the code, just type "make" in the command line, then "./a.out"

Also, note how every line ends in ";". It's used like a perid since period was used for decimal
numbers.
### Other functions
```c++
int multiply3(int a){
  return a * 3;
}
int multiply21(int a){
  return multiply3(a) * 7;
}
```
Here you can see a function can use other functions. The
multiply21 function calls multiply3, then multiplies the result
by 7. A function can even call itself, although that usually results
in it calling itself infinitely, meaning the program never finishes.

### Other operators
```c++
int a = 5 - 2; // a = 3
int b = 5 / 2; // b = 2
int c = 5 % 2; // c = 1
int d = false ? 5 : 2; // d = 5
bool x = true&&false; // x = false
bool y = true||false; // y = true
```
These are some of basic operators in c++. They work just as they do
normally in math, but division ignores the remainder. The **%** is modulo,
which is sort of like division except it returns the remainder instead
of the quotient. The order of operations is also the same as math, but
if you're not sure you can search it up or put paranthensis around it.

Boolean variables store a true or false value. The **&&** is a boolean
AND operator, and returns true if both sides are true. The **||** is
OR, and returns if either side is true.

The text after the **//** are comments, and are ignored. They are often
used to store documentation about the code, and here describe what they do.
### Compound assignment operators
```c++
int a = 0;
a += 1; // a = 1
a *= 8; // a = 8
a -= 2; // a = 6
a /= 3; // a = 2
```
These are compound operators. They evaluate the right hand side, then
assign the value on the left with the operator.

### Basic types
```c++
int a = 1;
char b = 'q';
bool c = false;
const char* = "text";
float = 2.142;
double = 2.5213;
```
These are some of the basic variable types in c++. Just about everything else in c++
is usually made up of some combination of these types. **int** stores whole numbers,
**char** stores a single letter or a number, **bool** stores true or false value, and
**float** and **double** stores a decimal number. The <b>char*<\b> is a pointer, which
is discussed later. For now just know that it stores an array of characters, otherwise
known as a string.

[Next: 0-A3](../Chapter0/A3.md)
