## Arrays, pointers, and references
### Arrays

```c++
int[] a = {1, 4, 2};
int b = a[0]; // b = 1
char* x = "text";
char y = x[1]; // y = 'e'
```
Arrays are a series of variables put together. Elements, one of the variables in an array, are accessed
using a brackets operator next to the variable name. Arrays themselves are declared with empty brackets
next to the type. Notably all arrays are all of the same type, so you never have to figure out what the
type of something in an array is.

### Pointers
```c++
int a = 6;
int *b = &a;
int c = *b; // c = 6
int* d = nullptr; // null, does not point anywhere
int* e = 0; // null
int* f; //invalid, avoid
```
Pointers are when you want to refer to a variable itself, or rather where it is. The value of a pointer
is the address of the variable. The declaration of a pointer is a asterisk between the type and the variable
name. The address of a variable is a ampersand before the variable name, which evaluates to a pointer. A pointer's
value can be evaluated (called dereferencing) by putting an asterisk before the pointer name.

Most importantly pointers can be null or invalid pointers, meaning they won't point anywhere useful. While null pointers
are always equals nullptr, invalid pointers are impossible to check for. The only way to avoid one is to always set pointrs to
be equals to something, even if it's nullptr. nullptr itself is equals 0, and vice versa. By extension, 0 is always an invalid address.

```c++
int a[] = {2,2,5};
int* p = a;
int b = *(++a)
int c = *(a+2); // c = 5;
```

Pointers can be incremented or added to. Adding will increment the pointer by the size it points to, allowing
elements of an array to be accessed. There are no performance benefits to doing it this way, and usually pointer
arithmetic is unnecessary. Moreover, pointer arithmetic is often the source of bugs and security vulnerabilities.

### References

```c++
int a = 1;
int& b = a;
int c = b; //c = 1
```

References are like pointers except better. They don't allow pointer arithmetic and must always be initialized
with a valid reference, so no nullptr checking is necessary. The syntax is simpler. Pointer arithmetic is impossible,
and the standards allow compilers to optimized more aggressively with references. Technically references don't always
occupy memory, and are allowed to be optimized out. The only downside is that a reference of a reference cannot exist,
nor can arrays or pointers.

[Next](A3.md)
