## Const and Static

This is sort of a miscellaneous section on variable qualifiers,
in this case const and static.

### Const

```c++
const int a = 4;
a = 2; // invalid, const variables can't be changed
int b = 2;
const int& ref = b;
struct object{
  int member;
  int readMember() const {return member;}
  int readMemberToo() {return member;}
  int writeWrong() const { member = 2; } // error: const method cannot mutate members
};

const object d{5};
d.readMember(); // returns 5
d.readMemberToo(); // error, non-cont members cannot be called on const functions.
object& ref = d; // error, cannot make non-const reference from const object. 
object* const wrong = &d; // wrong, this is a constant pointer to a mutable object
const object* ptr = &d; // right, although this pointer can be changed
const object* const ptr = &d; // completely right, although a reference would be simpler.
```

Const variables are, well, constant. They can't be changed after initialization, and often
have the OS preventing writes. Moreover, const-ness propogates down object ownership, preventing
any changes to members. Methods can't be used to bypass constness as they themselves have to be const.

Const references work exactly as you think you would, but const pointers are a bit finicky. They can be
themselves const, as well as refering to a const object. This is a very confusing syntax, and should probably
be avoided as it will cause more confusion than benefits.

Notably const references and pointers can be taken of non-const objects, but not the other way around. Despite
how much trouble it can be, const-ing everything you can allows the compiler to be more liberal with optimizations
and communicates the nature of methods and variables.

### Static and namespaces
```c++

namespace banan{
  function increment(){
    static int a{};
    return a++
  }
}

// foo.hpp
struct a{
  static const int a = 2;
  static int b;
  int c;
  static function(){ return b++; }
};

// foo.cpp
a::b = 2;
// main.cpp
a::function(); // returns 2
a::function(); // returns 3
banan::increment(); // returns 0
banan::increment(); // returns 1
```

Static variables are almost always declared as members, although sometimes they're declared outside of classes. Functions
and variables declared outside of a class as static are internal functions, and cannot be referred to outside of the header.
Inside of classes and functions, a static variable has lifetime for the rest of the program. Static methods are called
as if the class was a namespace. They cannot access members unless given one through the parameter, but are given private
access as if they were a normal function. Namespaces are ways of sorting classes, functions, and global variables into groups.
The std namespace is reserved for use by the compiler, and you shouldn't put your own code under the std namespace.

[Next: 1-A4](A4.md)
