## Inheritance

### Inheritance

Say you have a bunch of vehicles. There are cars,
boats, and airplanes. You want to address the
vehicles similarly, like say check their fuel
level and prices. What do you do? Write 3 different
functions? That takes way too much effort and
repeats code 3 different times. One way of solving
this is inheritance.

```c++
class vehicle{
  void drive();
public:
  virtual int cost() = 0;
  virtual float fuel() = 0;
  virtual ~vehicle() = 0;
};

class car: public vehicle{
  int cost() override { return 15'000; }
  float fuel() override { return 41.321; }
}

class plane: public vehicle{
  int cost() override { return 150'000'000; }
  int fuel() override { return 214'000'000.212; }
}

car BMW;
vehicle& carRef = static_cast<vehicle&>(BMW);
int cost = ref.cost(); // returns 15'000
plane boeing;
vehicle& planeRef = static_cast<vehicle&>(boeing);
car& pleasedont = static_cast<car&>(planeRef); // compiler error, static_cast
                                               // cannot go from base to derived.
car& thisThrows = dynamic_cast<car&>(planeRef); // this throws an exception.
car& good       = dynamic_cast<car&>(carRef);
```

In this example vehicle is a class made up of largely virtual
functions, and car is a class that overrides the cost and fuel
methods. When constructing car, it remembers the type of car.
Ref then knows that the vehicle is a car, and will call the
car's overriding method when cost() is called. The static cast
is done so that car& is turned into a vehicle&.

Static cast works by having the compiler ignore it as long as it's
from a derived class to a base class. However static_cast cannot
guarentee that it works the other way around, so it doesn't allow it.
Dynamic cast on the other hand checks the type of the referenced
object, but this takes time and might be slow on certain platforms.
If dynamic cast fails, throws an exception, which either kills
your program if not caught, or can be caught and recovered from.
Exceptions will be discussed later. If the dynamic cast was on
a pointer, it'll just leave a null pointer which will have to
be checked for.

The program remembering the types of variables is called Run
Time Type Information (RTTI). Usually compilers support it,
although for performance reasons some might have it disabled.

[Next](../Chapter3/A1.md)
