### Resource Aquisition is Initialization

Or rather, intialization is resource aquisition. Language idioms describe how things are
often done in a language. This idiom, shortened to RAII, is about how constructors represent
resources. Usually this means heap memory, although it can also be OS resources like files
or ownership of time in mutexs. For example:

```c++
class homegrown_unique_int_ptr{
  int* ptr;
public:
  homegrown_unique_int_ptr(int a){
    ptr = new int(a);
  }
  ~homegrown_unique_int_ptr(){
    delete ptr;
  }
  int access(){
    return *ptr;
  }
};
```
This is a very primative and naive implementation of a smart pointer, which
are classes that manage a pointer inside them. The reason why it's naive
is because it does not take account of compiler generated copy constructors.

### Rule of 0, 3, 5
```c++
struct num{
  int a;
}
struct ptr{
  int* a;
}

num a{2};
num b = a; // b.a = 2;
num c; // c is default constructed.

int u = 5;
ptr x{&u};
ptr y = x; // *y.a = 5
```

What do you think happens here? Intuitively, the number struct is copied over.
Similarly, the pointer is also copied over. But how does the compiler know how
to copy stuff? And what happens when you don't construct your objects?

The answer is implicitly declared constructors. By default the compiler, if no
constructors or destructors are defined, will make 5 methods: a default constructor,
a copy constructor and assignment, and move constructor and assignmenet.

A default constructor does nothing except default construct it's members, which usually
means leaving them uninitalized. It takes no members you can also define your own default
constructor, which is just a constructor with no parameters.

```c++
struct copiable{
  int a;
  copiable(int a): a(a){}
  copiable(const copiable& other): a(other.a){};
  copiable& operator=(const copiable& other): a(other.a){};
};
```

A copy constructor is a constructor that takes a const reference to another object of the
same class and copies it's contents.

When it's copied, the ptr is also copied. So when both
are destroyed, the ptr is deleted twice. That is illegal, and known as a
double-free. It can lead to corrupted memory, security leaks, or just plain
crashing. So how does one responsibly dynamically allocate memory?

### unique_ptr


```c++
#include <memory>

struct shell{
  std::unique_ptr<shell> inner;
  int a;
};

struct stuff{
  int a;
  char c;
};

std::shared_ptr<stuff> shared_ownership();
```

Unique pointers automatically deletes the pointer on destruction, and
can't be copied. They're usually used for recursive data structures,
like linked lists, trees, and graphs. Shared pointers can be copied,
and keep count of how many copies there are. It only destructs when
all copies have been destroyed, so no double frees or invalid pointers
are left over. They're used when ownership is shared between multiple
objects or contexts.

Usually whenever you want to use new or delete, smart pointers or containers
are a better option. Using new and delete manually almost always results in
user error, messy code, exception unsafety, and pain. Next I'll cover exceptions,
which allow for error handling even in constructors and destructors.

[Next 1-E1](E1.md)
