## Exceptions
```c++
class banana{
  banana(int weight);
}
```

Let's say you have a constructor for a banana that takes
weight as an integer. But if weight is way too big or
is negative, how does the constructor communicate that?
On first thought, one might just delay constructing by
using an init function that returns an error code. For
one function that's ok, but take this example.

```
int innermost(banana* out){
  banana fruit;
  if(fruit.init(5000000) == -1) 
    return -1;
  out = fruit;
  return 0;
}

int innerer(banana* out){
  // does other stuff
  if(innermost == -1) return -1;
  // more stuff
  return 0;
}

int inner(banana* out){
  // does other stuff
  if(innerer(out) == -1) return -1;
  // stuff
  return 0;
};

int matroshkaDoll(){
  banana result;
  inner(&result);
}
```
Admittedly, this is somewhat of a contrived scenario. But in
large-scale applications, several layers of function calls and
errors having to propogate far is not uncommon. Checking the
error message every single time is not only slow, but also
muddles the code by having error handling code be in the same
place as logic code.

Alternatively you could return a pointer to a new created object,
or change a global error message int. Both solutions are common
in c, where the number of features are greatly limited. Returning
a pointer means that you can return either the object pointer
or a null pointer, signalling an error. It still leaves the
problem of repeatedly having to check it however. The global
error message is also common, but most people forget to check it
and it can easily be overridden.

Technically the best option in C and assembly is to jump out
of all of the code to an error handling section. This however
assumes the callee knows the location of the caller, and knows
how to clean up everything. This is very difficult for most
people, and very tedious.

Of course, in c++ the compiler can do this for you. It's called
an exception.

```
class banana{
  banana(int weight){
    if (weight > 10000 || weight < 0){
      throw std::exception("invalid weight parameter");
  }
  ~banana(){ std::cout << "banana weighing " << weight << " destroyed\n"; }
};
banana inner(){
  banana a(5);
  banana b(-5); // throws
  return b;
} // banana weighing 5 destroyed
void outer(){
  try{
    banana a = inner();
  }
  catch(const std::exception& e){
    std::cout << e.what(); // prints "invalid weight parameter\n"
  }
}
```

When banana fails to construct, it throws an exception. The try
block then catches it, dumping the string contents of the
exception to cout. Notably anything in the middle of being
constructed doesn't count as initalized, and will not be destructed.
When exiting exceptions will also call the destructors of any
constructed objects, cleaning up resources. In general RAII
is necessary to safely deal with resources while being exception
safe.

Of course, exceptions aren't the end-all be-all solution for
error handling. It's significantly slower than just returning
an error code, and only becomes faster the more layers of scope
you have to deal with. Some compilers are very bad at implementing
exceptions, but the mainstream ones are pretty good about exceptions.

In general, exceptions should be used when something exceptionally
rare occurs and can't be dealt with by the function. In that case
the caller is expected to know what to do and hopefully gracefully
deal with it.

[Next: 1-E2](E2.md)
