## Exception Safety

```c++

bool doSomething(int* in);

int main(){
  int* number = new int(12);
  doSomething(number);
  delete number;
  // some other code that does stuff
}
```

At first glance, this is a perfectly innocuous piece of code. There's an
unnecessary usage of new here, but nothing aside from that. Of course, this
is a very bad piece of code for one reason: it is very exception unsafe. If
doSomething throws, which it totally can, memory is leaked. Memory leakage
isn't the end of the world for most programs, but if it was something like
OS resources, like access to a file, it might never give it back until the
computer is rebooted. So what do we do?

### Remember RAII?

```c++

bool doSomething(int* in);

int main(){
  unique_ptr<int> number(12);
  doSomething(number.get());
  // does stuff
}
```

Here, unique_ptr deals with the memory allocation. Exceptions
are really the main reason why RAII exists, as exceptions necessetate
the ability to have the compiler automatically clean up members.

```c++
struct thing{
  int* a;
  int* b;
  thing(int a, int b){
    a = new int(a);
    if(b < 12) throw std::exception();
    b = new int(b);
  }
  ~thing(){
    delete a;
    delete b;
  }
};
```

If the constructor here throws, a leaks memory. Because of that it's usually
necessary to have all members be RAII managed individually.

### External Resources

```c++
typedef void* HANDLE; // This declares a type HANDLE which
                      // is an alias for void*
HANDLE open(char* path);
int close(HANDLE);
```

One of the great boons (and banes) of c++ is its c compatability. Because of that
it's not unusal to use a c API, which obviously doesn't deal in unique_ptrs.
More often than not, c APIs will give a pointer to a struct to maintain ABI stability, which is convenient for reasons I'll cover later.(sidenote 1) In any case, there are ways
of dealing with it in c++.
```
#include "unique_resource"
//TODO: write sample code

```

As with many problems in c++, a good solution to a problem which occurs often and
requires a rigorous solution is to copy somebody else's. While unique pointer can
be forced to handle non-pointer types, to force a solution is generally bad practice
as it can lead to unforseen behavior and be difficult to read. For that reason,
a library called unique_resource, right now an external library, was created. It's virtually identical to unique_ptr except it allows for non-pointer types, among a few other features.

[Next: 1-D1](D1.md)
